Before our Lord Jesus returned to heaven,
he gave what has been called
the great commission.
He said: “Go, therefore, and make disciples
“of people of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father
and of the Son and of the holy spirit.”
No doubt you have those words
in your mind as well.
Jesus was not satisfied
that people should just
come to know his teachings.
Jesus wanted people
to come to love his teachings
so that they would act on them,
so that they would live by them,
and so that they would become
his true disciples.
Now, why did Jesus want people
to become his disciples
and live by his teachings?
Well, it’s because of something
that we read here
at John 13:17.
Now, notice what Jesus said here:
“If you know these things,
happy you are if you do them.”
What’s the point?
Jesus was saying that people
would find real happiness,
they would find the way of salvation,
they would have a relationship
with his precious heavenly Father
if they would just come to know
and do the things that he had taught.
Well, brothers and sisters,
in this symposium,
we are going to discuss
five different things
that our Bible students need to do,
that they need to progress in,
if they are going to become
true disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Let’s talk about the first.
What is the most basic need
that our Bible students have?
Well, it’s what Jesus talked about here
in Matthew chapter 5.
Let’s read it together.
Matthew 5:3
—Jesus said: “Happy are those conscious
“of their [notice] spiritual need,
since the Kingdom
of the heavens belongs to them.”
What’s the point?
Well, Jesus showed
that honesthearted people
have a spiritual need.
They have a need to come to know God
and to have a relationship with him
if they are really going to be happy.
Therefore, we need to teach
our Bible students the very first thing:
how they can fill that spiritual need
by learning
about their heavenly Father, Jehovah.
As they fill that need, as they come
to have that relationship with God,
that is the way to true happiness.
That means more than just
feeding people information.
You know, there is a saying
that’s very familiar to most of us.
It says, “Give a man a fish,
feed him for a day;
teach him how to fish,
feed him for a lifetime.”
What’s the point?
If we can teach our Bible students
how to feed themselves spiritually,
then they have the way in front of them
to a close relationship with God,
to strong faith,
and to becoming
real disciples of Jesus Christ.
Well, in the following demonstration
that you’ll see on video,
just notice how our Bible teacher
helps her student to be able to do this.
. . . just sum up the whole article.
Got it.
I find the answers in all that.
It’s more than just the answers.
I’m with it; I’m all about study.
Which do you
remember more from our studies,
the answers or the things
that touch your heart?
Mm.
Yeah, like,
when we talked about immorality,
you knew the answer,
but you didn’t seem totally convinced
in here.
Let’s try and find that answer.
Chapter 6?
Mm-hm.
“But whoever practices sexual immorality
is sinning against his own body.”
I’m not sure why,
but it made me think of Mum and Dad
(his constant cheating, actually),
Mum’s humiliation,
the divorce, all the misery.
I didn’t want that.
I began to realize
how right Jehovah is
because of what Neeta
called meditation.
It’s not about clearing your mind
to find inner peace;
it’s totally different.
It’s asking how Jehovah
feels about something
and then asking
what that means for me.
What did you notice in the video?
It’s true that Neeta showed
her Bible student the tools.
But what more did she do?
She also helped her
to see that the answers
were not the most important thing.
The most important thing was having
the information come to touch her heart
so that she would be moved to act
on what she learned.
Well, how can we help our students
to be able to feed themselves spiritually?
Well, from the very beginning,
once the study has been established,
we want to teach our students
how to prepare each week for the study.
Now, this might be
something very new to them,
so we’re going to have to go through it
step-by-step, showing them how to prepare.
It might also involve
having to help them see
how they can buy out time
from their schedule
so that they can do
what’s necessary to prepare.
And then don’t forget to commend them.
Because this might be
very new for many of our students,
when they make the effort to prepare,
make sure you give appropriate commendation.
But then what’s the next thing?
This is something that we
sometimes forget, brothers.
It’s the need to teach our students to pray
before every single study session.
Now, why is this important?
Well, once again,
we want our students not just to be thinking
in terms of acquiring information
—not to take
an academic approach to their study—
but instead to be always thinking
about how what they’re studying
connects them
with their heavenly Father, Jehovah,
so that they’re building up
a relationship with him.
As Proverbs chapter 2 says,
if we call out to Jehovah
for knowledge, for wisdom,
for understanding,
Jehovah will help us.
He’ll help our student to gain
that knowledge that they need
to build up a good relationship with him.
And then we want to do practical things.
We want to help our students
to become familiar
with the digital tools that we have
at our disposal for study.
That means helping them
to install on their phone,
on their tablet, or whatever device
they have JW Library®
and showing them how to use
Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY ™
so that they can get the answers
that they need to their questions.
Do you know, as of February of this year,
Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY
is now available
in more than 700 languages?
So people virtually all over the world
have access to these wonderful tools.
Don’t forget also to show them jw.org®
and JW Broadcasting® and show them
how they can keep up-to-date
with these wonderful provisions from Jehovah.
Well, now, we’ve shown them
how to prepare for their lesson,
we’ve shown them
how to use the online tools,
but what are the next progressive steps
we want to take
so that they
can feed themselves spiritually?
Well, of course, as Psalm 1 tells us,
if we want to be truly happy
and truly well-fed spiritually,
we have to “read [God’s] law
in an undertone day and night.”
So we want to teach our students
to get into that good habit
of reading God’s Word,
the Bible, every day.
And then what about the next step?
We want our students also to be able
to prepare for congregation meetings.
Now, if we’ve shown them
how to use JW Library,
this is really easy, isn’t it?
All we have to do
is basically hit that Meetings tab,
and when we do,
well, all the information
for our midweek meeting
and our weekend meeting is all there for us.
It will help our student to see
that this program of spiritual feeding
is something they can access
and something they can benefit from.
And what about research questions?
Now, brothers and sisters,
if you have a good student,
they’re going to be
asking lots of questions.
And this is where it’s sometimes
difficult for us as teachers.
We would like to be able to just rush in,
open our Bible, and answer
every question that our student has.
But what’s the better course?
Well, we want to be modest.
And instead of answering
all the questions for them,
how much better it is
to go back to those tools!
Go back to JW Library,
go back to Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY,
and show the student
how they can find the answers
to their own Bible questions.
As we do that, we’re helping them
to build for the future.
Well, brothers, if we can do this
—if we can accomplish this goal
of teaching our students
how to feed themselves spiritually
—we are not just feeding them today.
We’re not just
handing them a fish, as it were.
Instead, we’re teaching
them how to fish.
We’re teaching them
how to feed themselves
spiritually for a lifetime.
Even more important,
we’re fulfilling the commission
that Jesus gave us.
We are making
real disciples of Christ Jesus,
who are well-fed spiritually.
And, as a result, they will not wither up
or they will not blow away,
but instead they will stand firm
as true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Brother Ronald Curzan,
a helper with the Teaching Committee,
will now consider
the next talk in this symposium,
“Help Your Bible Students
to . . . Attend Meetings.”